# 2022_CELLS
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

The code was used in the following publication:

#### Title: Upregulated Ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum leads to impaired neurotransmitter release in Alzheimer’s disease.
#### Authors:  Temitope Adeoye (1), David A Rabson (1), Ghanim Ullah (1), and Angelo Demuro(2)
#### (1) Department of Physics, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL 33620. (2) Department of Neurobiology and Behavior University of California, Irvine, CA 4550. 


# Porject Directory Structrue:

- data : Simulation and raw project data for AD and WT configurations as specified in methods
- docs : contains detailed documentation anbd Markdown
- env : conda virtual environment to manage dependencies
- misc : Miscallaneous data, figures and codes designed for supplementary information
- results : figures, checkpoints, and tables generated by codes in scripts directory 
- scripts : Matlab and Python scripts as well as .ipynb notebooks for simulations
- src : reusable Python modules imported into python scripts

<<<<<<< HEAD
The codes were run on SLURM cluster with Matlab and Python. 

To run the code, ensure all directories and sub-directories are present as detailed above. The ".m" and ".py" files should be availbe in the "scripts"-folder "../scripts/Matlab/" and "../scripts/Python/" respectively. Figure and data directories are automatically generated by scripts if not already present. The raw simulation data is extremely large, but still written to the specified folder specific to stimulation type. Single AP data is present in "../data/SingleAP/", AP Train (20 AP at 20 Hz) data is present in "../data/APTrain/", and data for paired pulse protocol is available in "../data/PPR/".

## Manuscript Reproduction

To reproduce the complete simulations of the manuscript, run the following matlab codes in "scripts"-folder:
=======

The codes were run on SLURM cluster with Matlab and Python. 

To run the code, ensure all directories and sub-directories are present as detailed above. The ".m" and ".py" files should be availbe in the "scripts"-folder "../scripts/Matlab" and "../scripts/Python" respectively. Figure and data directories are automatically generated by scripts if not already present. The raw simulation data is extremely large, but still written to the specified folder specific to stimulation type. Single AP data is present in "../data/SingleAP", AP Train (20 AP at 20 Hz) data is present in "../data/APTrain", and data for paired pulse protocol is available in "../data/PPR".

To reproduce the complete simulations of the manuscript, run the following matlab codes in "scripts"-folder:

>>>>>>> 858669f85ca2614ec7048265767b870db774a936
        - solve_PPR_ODEs.m :      For Paired-Pulse Protocol simulation
        - solve_Train_ODEs.m:     For AP train simulation
        - solve_SingleAP_ODEs.m : For single AP simulation 

<<<<<<< HEAD
The paramter ```cell_condition``` specifies the simulation configuration and takes care of parameter switching for WT and AD configurations. 

Although several others slower, we include and equivalent python code that.......

Raw data generated from either simulation is saved into "../data/<stimulation condition>", and must subsequently be processed using "data_processing.py" in "../scripts/Python/"

as indicated in the comments, which will increase the calculation time up to hours depending on the computer speed. The resulting Mathematica files are provided as PDFs (e.g. "model1 complete.pdf"). To illustrate the function of the code, some parameters were reduced in the provided code, which results in an execution time of less than a minute. The resulting Mathematica files are also provided as PDFs (e.g. "model1.pdf"). To generate the data provided in the figure 6E, further data processing is required as explained in the folder "data processing".

=======

Although several others slower, python code 



If more confortable with python,  



        as indicated in the comments, which will increase the calculation time up to hours depending on the computer speed. The resulting Mathematica files are provided as PDFs (e.g. "model1 complete.pdf"). To illustrate the function of the code, some parameters were reduced in the provided code, which results in an execution time of less than a minute. The resulting Mathematica files are also provided as PDFs (e.g. "model1.pdf"). To generate the data provided in the figure 6E, further data processing is required as explained in the folder "data processing".
>>>>>>> 858669f85ca2614ec7048265767b870db774a936
"# Er_and_Exocytosis" 
